# GCA Backend

This repository contains all of the code related to running the GCA servers,
and the clients that report to the servers,

## Standards and Conventions

Within the code, "PublicKey" can be abbreviated to "PubKey" or "pubKey", but
not "pubkey". Same convention goes for "PrivateKey" - "PrivKey" and "privKey"
are okay but "privkey" is not.

Filenames use camelCase and any non-standard filetype ends with the extention
'.dat'. For example, filenames can be 'gcaPubKey.dat' or 'history.dat'

Units:
	+ 3 decimals of precision for latitude and longitude
	+ MilliWatt hours is the base unit of precision for energy
	+ Milliwatts is the base unit of precision for power
	+ Grams is the base unit of precision for emissions
	+ Grams per megawatt hour is the base unit of precision for emission rates
	+ Timeslots (5 minutes) is the base unit of precision for protocol time
	+ Seconds is the base unit of precision for clock time

Always use LittleEndian when encoding numbers to binary.

Anything that needs to be signed should have an explicit 'SigningBytes()'
function.

Comments about how long a duration is or how frequently an event happens may be
out of date. The durations get tweaked all the time because there wasn't any
formal system in place for deciding how to choose durations and frequencies for
different tasks. They got tweaked and adjusted kinda arbitrarily, in the hopes
that the tweaks were improving things.

## Concurrency

Objects that can be used in concurrent contexts will have a mutex inside of
them. Only one mutex is allowed per object. The mutex protects all fields
inside of the object, unless one of the fields is prefixed with 'static'. A
'static' prefix indicates that the field is not allowed to change, and
therefore can be read without holding the mutex. Static fields can be modified
during construction, before the object enters into a concurrent context.

If there is an object inside of an object without a mutex, that whole object is
protect by the mutex of its parent. If an object inside of an object has a
mutex, the inner object is not protected by the mutex of the parent.

Mutexes are not allowed to stack. At no point in time should two mutexes be
held at once.

Exported methods of objects are assumed to require locking a mutex. Therefore,
the implementation of these methods cannot assume that the caller is protecting
them against race conditions. Further, callers must assume that the exported
method will hold a mutex, therefore the caller cannot beholding a mutex
themselves when calling exported methods.

Unexported methods of objects default to assuming that they will be called with
a mutex already held. They can freely access the state of their object under
the assumption that the caller is already holding the lock.

Unexported methods of objects prefixed by 'managed' will manage their own
mutex. This means that they cannot be called while a mutex is held.

Methods of an object prefixed by 'static' do not require the mutexes of the
object in any way, and therefore are safe to call under any circumstances.

Following all of the above concurrency rules is guaranteed to prevent race
conditions and deadlocks. And though they may feel strict to someone who is not
used to them, they actually are very expressive and allow the programmer to
design nearly anything.
